# Basic concepts

<br>

The goal here is to give you a big picture of how SYL VCP works and what happens when you include our client code, configure and connect to the server.

SeeYouLink VCP platform consists of server-side, SeeYouLink RTC server (default one is rtc3.seeyoulink.com), and client-side, sylrtc-client.js, that you include in your web page or web application. We also have a React Native client that can be used to build native iOS and Android apps.

Once you include sylrtc-client.js into your web page, set minimal required configuration options, and connect to the server, what happens is that you establish a real-time communication channel between different users on your web page and RTC server. That channel is implemented using web sockets and its main purpose is to act as a way to help establish the exchange of messages and video calls between users. While our server is there to help users messages and streams reach intended recipients, actual messages and video/audio streams are in about 90% of cases direct between browser windows (and your users logged in them). In about 5-10% of the cases (global statistics), due to network security constraints between involved parties (your users), a direct connection between the peers cannot be established. In that case, all communication goes through so call TURN servers. In our case, we are using Twilio global network of servers to be mediators in such circumstances. Important to notice here is that even in the case where the stream goes through Twilio TURN server, nobody, Twilio included, can access the content of the communication because it is end-to-end encrypted using military-grade encryption.

While our goal was to enable you to establish real-time communication between your users as simple as possible (minimal case is about 20 lines of code!), at the same time our platform opens a lot of possibilities for customization and interesting use cases beyond just calling and messaging. As an example, an open communication channel between logged in users can be used to almost instantly deliver content updates, or even for online games, since the delay is typically below 10ms (depending on the network of course).

Important to understand is the concept of the room on our platform. In the simplest possible scenario, all your users that are connected to our calling server are in the same room (named by your client_id). What that means is that they can call and message each other, and can be notified about the online/offline status (presence) of all other users in the same room (your room). However, if you want, you can separate your users into different rooms, and that way, as an example, you can prevent your users from different teams to communicate with each other and see online presence. See more about rooms here: Rooms and how to use them.
